RuleConfigs (include for calling back into AD) (#363)
JuliaDiff/ChainRulesCore.jl: docs/src/config.md

# [Rule configurations and calling back into AD](@id config)

[`RuleConfig`](@ref) a method for making rules conditionally defined based on the presence of certain features in the AD system.
Once key such feature is the ability to perform AD either in forwards or reverse mode or both.

This is done with a kind of trait-like system (not Holy Traits), where the `RuleConfig` has a union of types as its only type-parameter.
Where each type represents a particular special feature of this AD.
To indicate that the AD system has special property, it's `RuleConfig` should be defines as:
```julia

> struct MyADRuleConfig <: RuleConfig{Union{Feature1, Feature2}} end

Author: downside: the need to both `NoFowardMode` and `CanFordwardMode` pairs

```
And rules that should only be defined when an AD has a particular special property write:
```julia
rrule(::RuleConfig{>:Feature1}, f, args...) = # rrule that should only be define for ADs with `Feature1`

frule(::RuleConfig{>:Union{Feature1,Feature2}}, f, args...) = # frule that should only be define for ADs with both `Feature1` and `Feature2`
```

A prominent use of this is in declaring that the AD system can, or cannot support being called from within the rule definitions.
## Declaring support for calling back into ADs

To declare support or lack of support for forward and reverse-mode the two pairs of complementary types.
For reverse mode: [`CanReverseMode`](@ref), [`NoReverseMode`](@ref).
For forwards mode: [`CanForwardsMode`](@ref), [`NoForwardsMode`](@ref).

> AD systems support any calling back into AD should have one from each set.

Author: Hmmm maybe we don't.
It was to make sure that we didn't end up with a ambiguious case for
having rules for if can go forwards, and rules for if can reverse.
and the config allows both.
Don't want that to be ambigious.
Mayhe the answer though there is to demand that  the rule author provides the extra rule for that to fix the ambiguity? (which would just be one of the others)?

> AD systems support any calling back into AD should have one from each set.

Reviewer: Ah, no, I think you are right, ambiguities prevent doing this.

So the concrete example is
```julia
myfunc(::RuleConfig{>:CanForwardsMode}) = 1
myfunc(::RuleConfig{>:CanReverseMode}) = 2
```
would be ambiguous for a Config which has both modes:
```julia
julia> myfunc(MockBothConfig())
ERROR: MethodError: myfunc(::MockBothConfig) is ambiguous.
```
Even if we resolve this by dropping the `CanReverseMode` from the config using some intermediate function:
```julia
myfunc(config::RuleConfig{>:Union{CanReverseMode, CanForwardsMode}}) = myfunc(drop_CanReverseMode(config))
```
that modified config would propagate. So probably just best to stick with `NoXMode`?

If `CanReverseMode` then [`rrule_via_ad`](@ref) must be defined for that RuleConfig subtype.
Similarly, if `CanForwardsMode` then [`frule_via_ad`](@ref) must be defined for that RuleConfig subtype.

For example:
```julia

> struct MyReverseOnlyADRuleConfig <: RuleConfig{Union{CanReverseMode, NoForwardsMode}} end

Author: one is the default assumption
though I wouldn't be surprised if it kept recreating that one.

Potentially might expose others to give user options.
Like if we had a special trait to use rules with different prerformance trade-offs.

I don't think it matters too much

> struct MyReverseOnlyADRuleConfig <: RuleConfig{Union{CanReverseMode, NoForwardsMode}} end

Reviewer: Yeah performance tradeoffs might be one. The question was really meant to make sure that I understand what the intended use case is.

It might declare that it `CanForwardsMode`, and then define a wrapper around [ForwardDiff.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ForwardDiff.jl) in order to provide that capacity.

## Writing rules that call back into AD

To define e.g. rules for higher order functions, it is useful to be able to call back into the AD system to get it to do some work for you.

For example the rule for reverse mode AD for map might like to use forward mode AD if one is available.
Particularly for the case where only a single input collection is being mapped over.
In that case we know the most efficient way to compute that sub-program is in forwards, as each call with-in the map only takes a single input.

Note: the following is not the most efficient rule for map via forward, but attempts to be clearer for demonstration purposes.

```julia
function rrule(config::RuleConfig{>:CanFowardsMode}, ::typeof(map), f::Function, x::Array{<:Real})
    y_and_ḟ_and_ẏ = map(x) do xi
        frule_via_ad(config, one(xi), f, xi)
    end
    ḟ_and_ẏ = last.(y_and_ḟ_and_ẏ)

    function pullback_map(ȳ)
        ḟ = first.(ḟ_and_ẏ)
        ẏ = last.(ḟ_and_ẏ)

>         return NoTangent(), ȳ * sum(ḟ), ȳ .* ẏ

Author: that seems bad.
Shoube be  `ḟ = ∂f/∂y`

I will need to look closer

>         return NoTangent(), ȳ * sum(ḟ), ȳ .* ẏ

Author: oh the math is just wrong enirely for `ḟ`

        pop!(ȳ)  # accumulate gradient via mutating ȳ, then return ZeroTangent
        return NoTangent(), ZeroTangent()
    end

    return y, push!_pullback
end
```
and it would be used in the AD e.g. as follows:
```julia
struct EnzymeRuleConfig <: RuleConfig{Union{SupportsMutation, CanReverseMode, NoForwardsMode}}
```

Note: you can only depend on the presence of a feature, not its absence.
This means we may need to define features and their compliments, when one is not the obvious default (as in the fast of [`CanReverseMode`](@ref)/[`NoReverseMode`](@ref) and [`CanForwardsMode`](@ref)/[`NoForwardsMode`](@ref).).

## Writing rules that are only for your own AD

A special case of the above is writing rules that are defined only for your own AD.
Rules which otherwise would be type-piracy, and would affect other AD systems.
This could be done via making up a special property type and dispatching on it.
But there is no need, as we can dispatch on the `RuleConfig` subtype directly.

For example in order to avoid mutation in nested AD situations, Zygote might want to have a rule for [`add!!`](@ref) that makes it just do `+`.

```julia

> struct ZygoteConfig <: RuleConfig{Nothing,Nothing, Union{}} end

Author: no, if you want a rule for speicifically Zygote then you don't need a trait for that you just dispatch on the config.

> struct ZygoteConfig <: RuleConfig{Nothing,Nothing, Union{}} end

Reviewer: But then you have to depend on Zygote to get the config, right?

# [Rule configurations and calling back into AD](@id config)

[`RuleConfig`](@ref) is a method for making rules conditionally defined based on the presence of certain features in the AD system.

> Once key such feature is the ability to perform AD either in forwards or reverse mode or both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One key such feature is the ability to perform AD either in forwards or reverse mode or both.
```

For example the rule for reverse mode AD for `map` might like to use forward mode AD if one is available.
Particularly for the case where only a single input collection is being mapped over.
In that case we know the most efficient way to compute that sub-program is in forwards, as each call with-in the map only takes a single input.

Note: the following is not the most efficient rule for `map` via forward, but attempts to be clearer for demonstration purposes.

```julia
function rrule(config::RuleConfig{>:HasForwardsMode}, ::typeof(map), f::Function, x::Array{<:Real})
    # real code would support functors/closures, but in interest of keeping example short we exclude it:
    @assert (fieldcount(typeof(f)) == 0) "Functors/Closures are not supported"

    y_and_ẏ = map(x) do xi
        frule_via_ad(config, (NoTangent(), one(xi)), f, xi)
    end
    y = first.(y_and_ẏ)
    ẏ = last.(y_and_ẏ)

    pullback_map(ȳ) = NoTangent(), NoTangent(), ȳ .* ẏ
    return y, pullback_map
end
```

## Writing rules that depend on other special requirements of the AD.

> The `>:CanReverseMode` and `>:CanForwardsMode` are two examples of special properties that a `RuleConfig` could allow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `>:HasReverseMode` and `>:HasForwardsMode` are two examples of special properties that a `RuleConfig` could allow.
```

# [Rule configurations and calling back into AD](@id config)

[`RuleConfig`](@ref) a method for making rules conditionally defined based on the presence of certain features in the AD system.
Once key such feature is the ability to perform AD either in forwards or reverse mode or both.

## Writing rules that call back into AD

To define e.g. rules for higher order functions, it is useful to be able to call back into the AD system to get it to do some work for you.

For example the rule for reverse mode AD for map might like to use forward mode AD if one is available.

> Particularly for the case where only a single input collection is being mapped over.

Reviewer 2: Might be cleanest to be really concrete and say a `Vector{Float64}` or something, rather than single input collection, because you don't want to use forwards-mode for lots of unary functions (if their inputs are high-dimensional)

Author: I do so in the code.
More importantly, AFAIK it isn't even possible to do this for other tyles, as we have no way to get a basis to propagate.
But for `Real`s the basis just so happens to be the multiplicative identity.

        ḟ = first.(ḟ_and_ẏ)
        ẏ = last.(ḟ_and_ẏ)
        return NoTangent(), x̄ * sum(ḟ), x̄ .* ẏ
    end

    return first.(y_and_ḟ_and_ẏ)
end
```

TODO demo for reverse.

## Writing rules that depend on other special requirements of the AD.

As of right now there are no such special properties defined.
We add this now for future-proofing, as adding more type-parameters later is breaking.
It is likely that in the future such will be provided for e.g. mutation support.

Such a thing would look like:
```julia
struct SupportsMutation end

function rrule(
    ::RuleConfig{<:Any,<:Any, >:SupportsMutatation}, typeof(push!), x::Vector
)
    y = push!(x)

    function push!_pullback(ȳ)
        pop!(x)  # undo change to primal incase it is used in another pullback we haven't called yet
        pop!(ȳ)  # accumulate gradient via mutating ȳ, then return ZeroTangent
        return NoTangent(), ZeroTangent()
    end

    return y, push!_pullback
end
```
and it would be used in the AD e.g. as follows:
```julia
struct EnzymeRuleConfig <: RuleConfig{Nothing,Nothing, Union{SupportsMutation}}
```
Note that in this case the `Union` is redudant since it has a single element.

> It is likely work keeping it, just so as to remember more are added by added them to the `Union`.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this sentence is trying to say.
